+++
title = "Tis’ the Season to be Arguing: Josiah King’s The Examination and Tryal of Old Father Christmas and the Controversy over Christmas in Early Modern England"
date = "2014-07-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Matthias MY Wong"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*PRISM*"
publication_short = "*PRISM*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper explores the history of Christmas as a demarcated time of festival. First, it traces the early history of Christmas, and the early Church’s attitude towards pagan mid-winter festivals. It then outlines how the Puritans of early modern England eventually outlawed Christmas, and on what grounds. It then considers in detail Josiah King’s The Examination and Tryal of Father Christmas, a seventeenth-century allegory about the festival published and revised over several decades. It tracks editorial changes made over the years and its various appeals to medieval and ancient forms of authority. The text itself is but one site of a larger cultural contestation over the power to prescribe meaning to contemporaries’ lived experiences."
abstract_short = "This paper explores the history of Christmas as a demarcated time of festival. First, it traces the early history of Christmas, and the early Church’s attitude towards pagan mid-winter festivals. It then outlines how the Puritans of early modern England eventually outlawed Christmas, and on what grounds. It then considers in detail Josiah King’s The Examination and Tryal of Father Christmas, a seventeenth-century allegory about the festival published and revised over several decades. It tracks editorial changes made over the years and its various appeals to medieval and ancient forms of authority. The text itself is but one site of a larger cultural contestation over the power to prescribe meaning to contemporaries’ lived experiences."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "christmas.jpg"
caption = "Journey of the Three Magi to Bethlehem by Leonaert Bramer (oil on panel), c. 1638-40"

+++

